---
layout: page
permalink: /PaperSummaries/
title: Paper Summaries
description: Here you can find video recordings summarizing a few of my main papers.
nav: false
nav_order: 3
---

<h3>Dynamic Primitives Limit Human Force Regulation During Motion</h3>
[[HTML](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9678084)] [<a href="../assets/pdf/Dynamic_Primitives_Limit_Human_Force_Regulation_During_Motion.pdf" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">PDF</a>]

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/RRfWe9KVSDY" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe><br>

Abstract: Humans excel at physical interaction despite long feedback delays and low-bandwidth actuators. Yet little is known about how humans manage physical interaction. A quantitative understanding of how they do is critical for designing machines that can safely and effectively interact with humans, e.g. amputation prostheses, assistive exoskeletons, therapeutic rehabilitation robots, and physical human-robot collaboration. To facilitate applications, this understanding should be in the form of a simple mathematical model that not only describes humans' capabilities but also their limitations. In robotics, hybrid control allows simultaneous, independent control of both motion and force and it is often assumed that humans can modulate force independent of motion as well. This letter experimentally tested that assumption. Participants were asked to apply a constant 5 N force on a robot manipulandum that moved along an elliptical path. After initial improvement, force errors quickly plateaued, despite practice and visual feedback. Within-trial analyses revealed that force errors varied with position on the ellipse, rejecting the hypothesis that humans have independent control of force and motion. The findings are consistent with a feed-forward motion command composed of two primitive oscillations acting through mechanical impedance to evoke force.

<hr> <!-- Add a horizontal rule to separate the posts -->

<h3>Role of path information in visual perception of joint stiffness</h3>
[[HTML](https://journals.plos.org/ploscompbiol/article?id=10.1371/journal.pcbi.1010729)] [<a href="../assets/pdf/Role_of_path_information_in_visual_perception_of_joint_stiffness.pdf" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">PDF</a>]

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/-bbXeqru7b0?si=KMomwPcql3KgjOLT" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe><br>

Abstract: Humans have an astonishing ability to extract hidden information from the movement of others. In previous work, subjects observed the motion of a simulated stick-figure, two-link planar arm and estimated its stiffness. Fundamentally, stiffness is the relation between force and displacement. Given that subjects were unable to physically interact with the simulated arm, they were forced to make their estimates solely based on observed kinematic information. Remarkably, subjects were able to correctly correlate their stiffness estimates with changes in the simulated stiffness, despite the lack of force information. We hypothesized that subjects were only able to do this because the controller used to produce the simulated arm’s movement, composed of oscillatory motions driving mechanical impedances, resembled the controller humans use to produce their own movement. However, it is still unknown what motion features subjects used to estimate stiffness. Human motion exhibits systematic velocity-curvature patterns, and it has previously been shown that these patterns play an important role in perceiving and interpreting motion. Thus, we hypothesized that manipulating the velocity profile should affect subjects’ ability to estimate stiffness. To test this, we changed the velocity profile of the simulated two-link planar arm while keeping the simulated joint paths the same. Even with manipulated velocity signals, subjects were still able to estimate changes in simulated joint stiffness. However, when subjects were shown the same simulated path with different velocity profiles, they perceived motions that followed a veridical velocity profile to be less stiff than that of a non-veridical profile. These results suggest that path information (displacement) predominates over temporal information (velocity) when humans use visual observation to estimate stiffness.

Author summary: Stiffness of the arms or legs, the force evoked by displacement, plays an important role in managing physical interaction with objects in the world. Measuring stiffness fundamentally requires physical contact. Nevertheless, previous study showed that humans have a remarkable ability to estimate stiffness solely from visual observation of a computer simulation, with no physical contact. The present study extended that work and found that this ability was robust. In particular, the ability to estimate simulated stiffness was largely unaffected by changing the time course of simulated motion. This was surprising given the extensive prior research reporting that distorting velocity patterns influences motion perception. The results presented in this paper indicate that geometric information (path) predominates over temporal information (velocity) in the perception of stiffness. Given the highly-cited relationship between motor action and perception, it also suggests that the structure of the motor control system we used in the simulations is a reasonable approximation of the neural motor controller. This work provides insight into humans’ representation of motor behavior and how humans interpret and learn from the motor actions of others.
